when one chooses to walk the way of the
mandalore
you are both hunter and prey this is the
way
this is the way
[Music]
welcome to screen crush i'm ryan airy
and we're all excited about this new
season of the mandalorian
especially since this season looks like
it's going to dive deeper into
mandalore's history and culture
mandalore has been featured in loads of
animated shows and books and comics
but in case you don't have the time to
absorb all of that material
i'm here to give you a brief rundown of
the history of mandalore
and how it will affect season two your
ancestors wrote the great mythosaur
centuries ago the first humans arrived
on mandalore and encountered giant
dinosaurs like this one
called a mythosaur they not only fought
them
but they tamed them and rode them around
the planet this is our assistant manager
doug tell doug what you think of this
costume in the comments thanks the
mandalore was home to a rare medal
called best car
which they began to forge into powerful
armor this metal is so strong it can
repel blaster fire and
lightsaber attacks so the mandalorians
developed a strained history with the
jedi
songs of eon's past tell a battle
between mandalore the great
and an order of sorcerers called jedi
then thousands of years ago
long before a farm boy from tatooine
gazed longingly into a sunset
amanda lauren was actually accepted into
the jedi order
his name was tar vizsla and he created a
special lightsaber called the dark saber
vizsla eventually left the order and
conquered mandalore
and this was the first time that all of
the various mandalorians warlords and
houses and clans
were actually united after tarvisla died
his saber was kept in the jedi temple on
coruscant
but when the old republic fell a
thousand years before the battle of
yavin
mandalorians sacked the jedi temple and
reclaimed the sabre without tar vizzle
to unite them
mandalorians fought one another for
centuries now during one of these wars
qui-gon jinn and his padawan obi-wan
kenobi
were on a mission to protect a young
royal member named duchess satine
then she and obi-wan fell in love with
each other
but sensibly never acted on their
emotions
had you said the word i would have left
the jedi order
eventually the constant mooring
destroyed the planet's surface and
created a vast unlivable desert all of
the war warmongering
armor-wearing mandalorians were exiled
to the moon concordia
and slowly died out over the centuries
or did they
when the clone wars began duchess satine
who rules
all of mandalore made sure the planet
stayed neutral
and mandalore became leader of several
hundred other neutral systems
then there was a terrorist bombing at an
area called peace park
obi-wan kenobi arrived to investigate
while he and duchess satine made
sensible googly eyes at one another
eventually they traced the bombing to
concordia mandalore's moon
and the moon's governor pree vizsla a
descendant of tarvissa and he's all like
ah
nothing to see here i'm just a rich guy
on a moon where you guys sent all the
warrior centuries ago but
done with that but then it turns out
that he's actually the leader
of the evil war-mongering mandalorians
called death watch
what he has the darksaber and believes
that he should lead mandalore
and they should all go back to their
warmongering violent ways
prepare yourself to join them he's even
made a deal with count dooku that if he
helps him conquer the planet then he'll
make sure that mandalore enters the war
on the side of the separatists obi-wan
defeats him and death watch goes on the
run
then count dooku hangs them out to dry
they have no base and they want revenge
against basically everyone
pre-vizila's number one follower is bo
katan crees
the sister of duchess satine more on her
in a bit
since mandalore isn't allied with either
side in the clone war they have a hard
time getting certain supplies
such as tea for the school children so
the black market flourishes on the
planet and the school children receive
their tea
which was actually poison
oh i have a bad feeling about this some
plucky teens conduct an investigation
and they find out that the prime
minister of the planet almec was behind
the black market and was also skimming
off the top
what now let's take a brief aside for a
star wars politics explanation
duchess satine determines the overall
direction of the planet especially in
relation
to the galactic sphere while the prime
minister answers to her and takes care
of the day-to-day operations on the
planet itself
like you know making sure the kids don't
get poison tea
isn't it toxic won't somebody please
think of the children
back to death watch they're a little
aimless they're looking for a
headquarters trying to get revenge
against dooku
and striking at the separatists wherever
they can this is when they save a young
den
jaren from separatist battle droids
during the clone wars but then
pre-vizsla meets darth fricken maul
yes darth maul survived his duel with
obi-wan and was rescued by a sith
apprentice brother who was named savage
oprah's
sorry sauvage oppress so then darth
maul's all like
i've been haved and then their mom gives
them all a pair of
magic legs now maul and his brother
savage sorry savage oppress
want revenge on darth sidious they want
revenge on dooku obi-wan kenobi and all
the jedi
pretty much everything drawing breath so
then they meet up with pre-vizila and
propose an alliance
and bokeh tan is all like i don't know
man maybe this evil sith lord is
actually an evil sith lord i don't think
we can trust him a doubt
will only lead to failure pre-vizil
agrees to an alliance with maul if he
helps him conquer mandalore
so the two of them go around the galaxy
absorbing different crime syndicates
into their shadow collective it's a new
criminal organization
the mall is going to be the kingpin of
so the shadow collective attacks
mandalore and remember
they're all peace love dope no weapons
total pacifists you know dude
i once dabbled in pacifism not in the
clone wars of course
anyways shadow collective attacks and
the mandalorians are helpless so death
watch flies in to save the day
and the people are all like pacifism
sucks we want you to rule us
we need action not passive so pre-vizil
locks up maul and almec and duchess the
team he tries to turn on maul but then
maul challenges him to a duel
for leadership of death watch and all of
mandalore pre-vizzle gets a ned stark
surprise and now darth maul rules
all of mandalore and he owns the dark
saber by rights
he installs all mek as a figurehead and
uses sateen to lure obi-wan to the
planet hello there and boca tan
is not having any of this so she leads
her group called the night owls in
another mandalorian civil war
against darth maul
obi-wan does show up on mandalore and
maul gets his revenge killing her in
front of him
so she ends up like another satine who
loved a character played by owen
mcgregor then
darth sidious hears that his former
apprentice is doing well so he arrives
on mandalore
kills savageo press and captures darth
maul then maul escapes from prison with
the help of his loyal mandalorian
followers
like gar saxon some stuff happens it's
not important his shadow collective
falls apart
and he helps his loyal followers to
retake mandalore
but maul has a reason for doing this he
wants to lure obi-wan and anakin
skywalker to the planet
because he senses how important anakin
is to the emperor's plans
he has long been groomed for his role
as my master's new apprentice
but instead anakin's former padawan
ahsoka tano has met
up with the exiled bokutan and her
captain ursa rin
they convinced ahsoka to help them
liberate mandalore from darth maul so
ahsoka and a few republic forces and
bokutan's night owls engage maul's
troops this is called the siege of
mandalore it's a long battle
that ends with maul's forces being
captured or killed and ahsoka taking
down darth maul
and the republic occupying mandalore
then bocatan has made regents of
mandalore which is now part of the
republic
but like like two hours later the
republic becomes the empire
and bokoten is now a puppet figurehead
ruled by a totalitarian state
doesn't toe the imperial line and she's
replaced with maul's former follower
gar saxon because mandalore is known for
producing great warriors the empire
builds an imperial academy
on the planet one young cadet was sabine
wren the daughter of ursuline she's a
gifted engineer who builds a machine
that can destroy best car
armor and anyone wearing it now she
realizes that this machine would
decimate her people
so instead of finishing it she joins the
rebellion and destroys the plans to the
machine now her family was shocked that
she would betray the empire and they
cast her
out of their clan i didn't know the
empire would use the weapon i designed
against
our people alright so in the meantime
darth maul formed another criminal
empire which was destroyed
and he kind of fell on hard times but
i'm too old i i need help to
open the door so sabine wren finds the
dark saber on his home planet dathomir
then she returns to mandalore and
defeats gar saxon in a duel and then
decides to spare his life
but then guard does that sneaky villain
thing where he tries to kill her after
she spares him
and sabine's mom ursa wren kills him
instead
no one threatens our family this has
huge implications for mandalorian
politics because it means that house
wren has betrayed clan saxon
and the mandalorians are having a civil
war again
must be tuesday right i don't want to be
amanda
now clan saxon is being led by garr's
brother tiber saxon
and he is all about doing whatever the
empire tells him to do
no dude you're a little [ __ ] but there
are other important mandalorians out
there
like jango fett you all remember him he
was from this planet called concord
dawn which is in the mandalorian sphere
of influence
obviously the clone army was created
from his dna and so was boba fett
but years later another important
mandalorian lived on concord don
finn rau rau was one of the mandalorian
protectors it's the people who guarded
duchess satine
after mandalore was conquered by the
empire rao and the collectors settled on
concord dawn and agreed to police
hyperspace routes for the empire
the empire betrayed him and gar saxon
killed all of the mandalorian protectors
except for fenrao afterwards fenris
obviously pissed so he joins the
rebellion
and swears to free mandalore from the
empire so
sabine and her rebel friends go to
mandalore to help ursa wren and bogatan
overthrow tiber sacks and kick the
empire off the planet
okay that's a lot of names but the
empire has finished sabine's weapon
you know the one that can fry best car
armor and decimate her entire race
so then sabine programs the machine to
destroy stormtrooper armor instead
tiber saxon is killed and the imperial
forces are decimated
sabine gives the darksaber to bokutan so
she can
this seems like a happy ending but the
empire struck back
like they always do at some point after
this they initiated the great purge
an event that nearly destroyed the
planet and scattered mandalorians across
the galaxy all we know at this point is
that the empire plundered nearly
all the best car steel from the planet
these are the spoils of the great purge
the reason that we live hidden like sand
rats
moff gideon an officer in the imperial
secret police became ruler of mandalore
and stole the dark saber for himself
afterwards a new mandalorian culture
emerges they begin to recruit children
who they call foundlings and incorporate
them into mandalorian culture
they are no longer allowed to remove
their helmets and they live by a strict
creed of honor
this is the way this is the way one of
them a bounty hunter named den jarn
comes across a force sensitive being
simply known as the child
rather than hand him over to the
imperial remnants for experiments
he decides to help the child find his
family or other force-sensitive users
on the planet navarro they're led by a
mandalorian simply called the armorer
the other mandalorians on navarro have
his back and end up fighting the
imperial forces
however the empire strikes back like
they always do they defeat the
mandalorians killing many of them
and leaving only the armorer to pick up
the pieces however she allows denjarin
to escape with the child heading off to
parts unknown
this is the way so here's a rundown of
all the characters i mentioned who
you're probably going to see in
mandalorian season 2. ahsoka tano
anakin's former apprentice leader of the
rebellion now just kind of a free agent
doing what she wants
vocatin veteran of the clone wars former
leader of mandalore now also on the run
finn ralph former mandalorian protector
and rebel alliance member and the most
important mandalorian
your mom knows wire jokes did i say
anything
he's trying i didn't say anything do you
have any questions about mandalore their
history let me know in the comments
below and if it's your first time here
please subscribe for screen crush i'm
ryan airy
[Music]
you